[@sdeverywhere/plugin-check](../index.md) / CheckPluginOptions

# Interface: CheckPluginOptions

The options that control how the model-check report is generated or served.

## Properties

### baseline

 `Optional` **baseline**: [`CheckBundle`](CheckBundle.md)

The baseline bundle, i.e., the "left" bundle used in comparisons.

If `baseline` is undefined, no comparison tests will be run.

___

### current

 `Optional` **current**: [`CheckBundle`](CheckBundle.md)

The current bundle, i.e., the bundle that is being developed and checked.

This will be the "right" bundle that is compared to the "left" (baseline)
bundle, if `baseline` is defined.  If `baseline` is undefined, no
comparison tests will be run, but check tests will still be run using
the `current` bundle.

If `current` is undefined, the latest `check-bundle.js` generated by
the build process will be used as the default `current` bundle, with
`name` set to "current".

___

### remoteBundlesUrl

 `Optional` **remoteBundlesUrl**: `string`

The URL to a JSON file containing the list of remote bundles that will be available
in local development mode.  The JSON file is expected to contain an array of
`BundleLocation` objects.  If undefined, only local bundles will be available.

This value is only used in "development" mode and is ignored in "production"
mode (since only the configured `baseline` and `current` bundles are used
in that case).

___

### testConfigPath

 `Optional` **testConfigPath**: `string`

The absolute path to the JS file containing the test configuration.  If undefined,
a default test configuration will be used.

___

### reportPath

 `Optional` **reportPath**: `string`

The absolute path to the directory where the report will be written.  If undefined,
the report will be written to the configured `prepDir`.

___

### serverPort

 `Optional` **serverPort**: `number`

The port used for the local dev server (defaults to 8081).
