examples/template-svelte/README.md, before:

# template-svelte

This is a template that is used by the `@sdeverywhere/create` package to generate a
new project that uses SDEverywhere for a Svelte-based web application.

The project includes:

- a build process that converts a Vensim model to a JavaScript or WebAssembly
  module that can run the model in any web browser or in a Node.js application
- a `config` directory that contains CSV files for configuring the generated
  model and application
- a "core" package that provides a clean JavaScript / TypeScript API around the
  generated model
- an "app" package containing a web application (based on the
  [Svelte](https://svelte.dev/) framework) that can be used to exercise the model
- a local development mode (`npm run dev`) that allows for rapid prototyping
  of the model and app
- a "model-check" setup that allows for running checks and comparison tests using
  the generated model

## Quick Start

```sh
# Create a new project (you can also use yarn or pnpm here, if preferred).
npm create @sdeverywhere@latest -- --template svelte

# Enter development mode for your model.  This will start a live
# development environment that will build a JavaScript version of the
# model and run checks on it any time you make changes to:
#   - the config files
#   - the Vensim model file (<name>.mdl)
#   - the model check definitions (model/checks/*.yaml)
#   - the model comparison definitions (model/comparisons/*.yaml)
npm run dev
```

## Notes

- The Vensim model is in `model/{MODEL_NAME}.mdl`.

- The `sde.config.js` file is used by the `sde` command line tool to generate
  a JavaScript version of the model, which is copied into the `core` package
  at build time (into the `packages/core/src/model/generated` directory).

- The web app is developed using the [Svelte](https://svelte.dev/) framework.
  See `packages/app/src/app.svelte` for the top-level `App` component.

- The code that runs the generated model is located in
  `packages/core/src/model/model.ts`. This code:
  1. passes the slider values to the generated model as inputs
  2. runs the generated model asynchronously (in a Web Worker)
  3. makes the model outputs available to be displayed (and animated) in the
     main graphs

## For Contributors

If you are modifying SDEverywhere (the packages in this repository) and want
to use this `template-svelte` example to test your changes, you can use it directly
without copying to a separate directory.

The template already includes the "SIR" Vensim model in `model/MODEL_NAME.mdl`
and associated graph and slider configuration in the `config` directory, so it
can be used right away without following the "Quick Start" instructions.

Note that this example is already configured in `pnpm-workspace.yaml`, which
means that its dependencies (e.g., `@sdeverywhere/cli`) are already linked to
the ones from the `packages` directory in this repository; no separate linking
step is necessary.

The following assumes that you have already run `pnpm install` in the top-level
directory, and have built the local packages with `pnpm build`.

```sh
# Enter local development mode for the project (this uses `sde dev`)
pnpm dev
```

## License

SDEverywhere is distributed under the MIT license. See `LICENSE` for more details.

Commit message:

fix: update template-svelte to use plugin-deploy + add GitHub Actions workflow file

examples/template-svelte/README.md, after:

# template-svelte

This is a template that is used by the `@sdeverywhere/create` package to generate a
new project that uses SDEverywhere for a Svelte-based web application.

The project includes:

- a build process that converts a Vensim model to a JavaScript or WebAssembly
  module that can run the model in any web browser or in a Node.js application
- a `config` directory that contains CSV files for configuring the generated
  model and application
- a "core" package that provides a clean JavaScript / TypeScript API around the
  generated model
- an "app" package containing a web application (based on the
  [Svelte](https://svelte.dev/) framework) that can be used to exercise the model
- a local development mode (`npm run dev`) that allows for rapid prototyping
  of the model and app
- a "model-check" setup that allows for running checks and comparison tests using
  the generated model

## Quick Start

```sh
# Create a new project (you can also use yarn or pnpm here, if preferred).
npm create @sdeverywhere@latest -- --template svelte

# Enter development mode for your model.  This will start a live
# development environment that will build a JavaScript version of the
# model and run checks on it any time you make changes to:
#   - the config files
#   - the Vensim model file (<name>.mdl)
#   - the model check definitions (model/checks/*.yaml)
#   - the model comparison definitions (model/comparisons/*.yaml)
npm run dev
```

## Notes

- The Vensim model is in `model/{MODEL_NAME}.mdl`.

- The `sde.config.js` file is used by the `sde` command line tool to generate
  a JavaScript version of the model, which is copied into the `core` package
  at build time (into the `packages/core/src/model/generated` directory).

- The web app is developed using the [Svelte](https://svelte.dev/) framework.
  See `packages/app/src/app.svelte` for the top-level `App` component.

- The code that runs the generated model is located in
  `packages/core/src/model/model.ts`. This code:
  1. passes the slider values to the generated model as inputs
  2. runs the generated model asynchronously (in a Web Worker)
  3. makes the model outputs available to be displayed (and animated) in the
     main graphs

## Deployment

This project automatically publishes your simulator and model-check reports to
a public website (hosted on GitHub Pages) whenever you push changes to GitHub.

### Automatic Publishing

- **Every time you push changes** to any branch on GitHub, a workflow automatically runs.
- **Your simulator becomes available online** at a public web address that anyone can visit.
- **The model-check reports for your branch are also published** alongside your simulator.
- **No manual steps required** - everything happens automatically in GitHub Actions.

### Accessing Your Published Simulator

- **Index page**: An index page that includes links to the latest build and all branch builds is available at `https://yourusername.github.io/your-project-name`
- **Main branch**: Your latest simulator app build for the `main` branch is available at `https://yourusername.github.io/your-project-name/latest`
- **Other branches**: Each branch gets its own URL (e.g., `https://yourusername.github.io/your-project-name/branch/feature-name`)
  - The app build for the branch is available at `https://yourusername.github.io/your-project-name/branch/feature-name/app`
  - The model-check report that compares the branch to the latest `main` build will be available at `https://yourusername.github.io/your-project-name/branch/feature-name/extras/check-compare-to-base`
  - The model-check bundle file will be available at `https://yourusername.github.io/your-project-name/branch/feature-name/extras/check-bundle.js`

### Sharing Your Work

Once published, you can share the web address with anyone. They can:

- Use your simulator directly in their web browser
- View the model-check reports to understand how the model on one branch compares to another version of the model
- Access different versions if you're working on multiple features or other changes in parallel

## For Contributors

If you are modifying SDEverywhere (the packages in this repository) and want
to use this `template-svelte` example to test your changes, you can use it directly
without copying to a separate directory.

The template already includes the "SIR" Vensim model in `model/MODEL_NAME.mdl`
and associated graph and slider configuration in the `config` directory, so it
can be used right away without following the "Quick Start" instructions.

Note that this example is already configured in `pnpm-workspace.yaml`, which
means that its dependencies (e.g., `@sdeverywhere/cli`) are already linked to
the ones from the `packages` directory in this repository; no separate linking
step is necessary.

The following assumes that you have already run `pnpm install` in the top-level
directory, and have built the local packages with `pnpm build`.

```sh
# Enter local development mode for the project (this uses `sde dev`)
pnpm dev
```

## License

SDEverywhere is distributed under the MIT license. See `LICENSE` for more details.
