packages/build/docs/interfaces/ModelSpec.md, before:

[@sdeverywhere/build](../index.md) / ModelSpec

# Interface: ModelSpec

Describes a model (e.g., a Vensim mdl file) and the input/output variables
that should be included in the model generated by SDEverywhere.

## Properties

### inputs

 **inputs**: `string`[] \| [`InputSpec`](InputSpec.md)[]

The input variables for the model.  This can either be a simple array of
input variable names, or an array of `InputSpec` instances.

The builder requires only variable names for the purposes of generating
a model, but some plugins may require full `InputSpec` instances.

___

### outputs

 **outputs**: `string`[] \| [`OutputSpec`](OutputSpec.md)[]

The output variables for the model.  This can either be a simple array of
output variable names, or an array of `OutputSpec` instances.

___

### datFiles

 `Optional` **datFiles**: `string`[]

The dat files that provide the data for exogenous data variables in the
model.

___

### bundleListing

 `Optional` **bundleListing**: `boolean`

Whether to bundle a model listing with the generated model.

If undefined, defaults to false.

When this is true, a model listing will be bundled with the generated
model to allow the `runtime` package to resolve variables that are
referenced by name or identifier.  This listing will increase the size
of the generated model, so it is recommended to set this to true only
if it is needed.

___

### customLookups

 `Optional` **customLookups**: `boolean` \| `string`[]

Whether to allow lookups to be overridden at runtime using `setLookup`.

If undefined or false, the generated model will implement `setLookup`
as a no-op, meaning that lookups cannot be overridden at runtime.

If true, all lookups in the generated model will be available to be
overridden.

If an array is provided, only those variable names in the array will
be available to be overridden.

___

### customOutputs

 `Optional` **customOutputs**: `boolean` \| `string`[]

Whether to allow for capturing the data for arbitrary variables at
runtime (including variables that are not configured in the `outputs`
array).

If undefined or false, the generated model will implement `storeOutput`
as a no-op, meaning that the data for arbitrary variables cannot be
captured at runtime.

If true, all variables in the generated model will be available to be
captured at runtime.

If an array is provided, only those variable names in the array will
be available to be captured at runtime.

___

### options

 `Optional` **options**: `Object`

Additional options included with the SDE `spec.json` file.

#### Index signature

▪ [key: `string`]: `any`

Commit message:

feat: allow for overriding constants at runtime (#767)
Fixes #470

packages/build/docs/interfaces/ModelSpec.md, after:

[@sdeverywhere/build](../index.md) / ModelSpec

# Interface: ModelSpec

Describes a model (e.g., a Vensim mdl file) and the input/output variables
that should be included in the model generated by SDEverywhere.

## Properties

### inputs

 **inputs**: `string`[] \| [`InputSpec`](InputSpec.md)[]

The input variables for the model.  This can either be a simple array of
input variable names, or an array of `InputSpec` instances.

The builder requires only variable names for the purposes of generating
a model, but some plugins may require full `InputSpec` instances.

___

### outputs

 **outputs**: `string`[] \| [`OutputSpec`](OutputSpec.md)[]

The output variables for the model.  This can either be a simple array of
output variable names, or an array of `OutputSpec` instances.

___

### datFiles

 `Optional` **datFiles**: `string`[]

The dat files that provide the data for exogenous data variables in the
model.

___

### bundleListing

 `Optional` **bundleListing**: `boolean`

Whether to bundle a model listing with the generated model.

If undefined, defaults to false.

When this is true, a model listing will be bundled with the generated
model to allow the `runtime` package to resolve variables that are
referenced by name or identifier.  This listing will increase the size
of the generated model, so it is recommended to set this to true only
if it is needed.

___

### customConstants

 `Optional` **customConstants**: `boolean` \| `string`[]

Whether to allow constants to be overridden at runtime using `setConstant`.

If undefined or false, the generated model will implement `setConstant`
as a no-op, meaning that constants cannot be overridden at runtime.

If true, all constants in the generated model will be available to be
overridden.

If an array is provided, only those variable names in the array will
be available to be overridden.

___

### customLookups

 `Optional` **customLookups**: `boolean` \| `string`[]

Whether to allow lookups to be overridden at runtime using `setLookup`.

If undefined or false, the generated model will implement `setLookup`
as a no-op, meaning that lookups cannot be overridden at runtime.

If true, all lookups in the generated model will be available to be
overridden.

If an array is provided, only those variable names in the array will
be available to be overridden.

___

### customOutputs

 `Optional` **customOutputs**: `boolean` \| `string`[]

Whether to allow for capturing the data for arbitrary variables at
runtime (including variables that are not configured in the `outputs`
array).

If undefined or false, the generated model will implement `storeOutput`
as a no-op, meaning that the data for arbitrary variables cannot be
captured at runtime.

If true, all variables in the generated model will be available to be
captured at runtime.

If an array is provided, only those variable names in the array will
be available to be captured at runtime.

___

### options

 `Optional` **options**: `Object`

Additional options included with the SDE `spec.json` file.

#### Index signature

▪ [key: `string`]: `any`
