packages/runtime/docs/index.md, before:

# @sdeverywhere/runtime

## High-level API

Create a [ModelRunner](interfaces/ModelRunner.md) around a
[GeneratedModel](types/GeneratedModel.md) to run that model either synchronously
or asynchronously.

- [ModelRunner](interfaces/ModelRunner.md)
- [createSynchronousModelRunner](functions/createSynchronousModelRunner.md) (see `@sdeverywhere/runtime-async` package for asynchronous variant)

### Model Scheduler

Optional: Create a [ModelScheduler](classes/ModelScheduler.md) around a `ModelRunner` to
simplify the process of running the model on demand.
This API is especially useful in web applications built with a reactive framework.

- [ModelScheduler](classes/ModelScheduler.md)

### Inputs

The `InputValue` API is generally only needed when working with the `ModelScheduler` class.

- [InputValue](interfaces/InputValue.md)
- [InputCallbacks](interfaces/InputCallbacks.md)
- [createInputValue](functions/createInputValue.md)

### Outputs

Use the [Outputs](classes/Outputs.md) class to access the model outputs that are stored after
each model run by the `ModelRunner`.

- [Outputs](classes/Outputs.md)
- [Series](classes/Series.md)
- [Point](interfaces/Point.md)

---

## Low-level API

Note: Most developers will not need to interact with these low-level APIs directly.
These are exposed only to show the shape of models that are generated by the SDEverywhere compiler.

### API for generated JavaScript models

- [JsModel](interfaces/JsModel.md)

### API for generated WebAssembly models

- [WasmModule](interfaces/WasmModule.md)

Commit message:

feat: add model scheduler variant that supports multiple input/output contexts (#630)
Fixes #625

packages/runtime/docs/index.md, after:

# @sdeverywhere/runtime

## High-level API

Create a [ModelRunner](interfaces/ModelRunner.md) around a
[GeneratedModel](types/GeneratedModel.md) to run that model either synchronously
or asynchronously.

- [ModelRunner](interfaces/ModelRunner.md)
- [createSynchronousModelRunner](functions/createSynchronousModelRunner.md) (see `@sdeverywhere/runtime-async` package for asynchronous variant)

### Model Scheduler

Optional: Create a [ModelScheduler](classes/ModelScheduler.md) or
[MultiContextModelScheduler](classes/MultiContextModelScheduler.md)
around a `ModelRunner` to simplify the process of running the model on demand.
These classes are especially useful in web applications built with a reactive framework.

NOTE: The main difference between these two classes is that `MultiContextModelScheduler`
allows for using multiple "contexts" (i.e., distinct sets of inputs and outputs) with
the same underlying model instance, while `ModelScheduler` effectively only supports a
single context. These two APIs will be combined prior to version 1.0 of the `runtime`
package.

- [ModelScheduler](classes/ModelScheduler.md)
- [MultiContextModelScheduler](classes/MultiContextModelScheduler.md)

### Inputs

The `InputValue` API is generally only needed when working with the `ModelScheduler` or
`MultiContextModelScheduler` classes.

- [InputValue](interfaces/InputValue.md)
- [InputCallbacks](interfaces/InputCallbacks.md)
- [createInputValue](functions/createInputValue.md)

### Outputs

Use the [Outputs](classes/Outputs.md) class to access the model outputs that are stored after
each model run by the `ModelRunner`.

- [Outputs](classes/Outputs.md)
- [Series](classes/Series.md)
- [Point](interfaces/Point.md)

---

## Low-level API

Note: Most developers will not need to interact with these low-level APIs directly.
These are exposed only to show the shape of models that are generated by the SDEverywhere compiler.

### API for generated JavaScript models

- [JsModel](interfaces/JsModel.md)

### API for generated WebAssembly models

- [WasmModule](interfaces/WasmModule.md)
