# @sdeverywhere/plugin-config

This package provides a plugin that reads CSV files used to configure a library or app around a System Dynamics model generated by [SDEverywhere](https://github.com/climateinteractive/SDEverywhere).

## Quick Start

The best way to get started with SDEverywhere is to follow the [Quick Start](https://github.com/climateinteractive/SDEverywhere#quick-start) instructions.
If you follow those instructions, the `@sdeverywhere/plugin-config` package will be added to your project automatically, in which case you can skip the next section and jump straight to the ["Usage"](#usage) section below.

## Install

```sh
# npm
npm install --save-dev @sdeverywhere/plugin-config

# pnpm
pnpm add -D @sdeverywhere/plugin-config

# yarn
yarn add -D @sdeverywhere/plugin-config
```

## Usage

_Note:_ If you followed the "Quick Start" instructions above, the `create` script will have already performed the following steps for you.
Reading these instructions can still be helpful if you are setting up a project manually or want to understand how `plugin-config` can be integrated into your project.

To get started:

1. Copy the included template config files to your local project:

```sh
cd your-model-project
npm install --save-dev @sdeverywhere/plugin-config
cp -rf "./node_modules/@sdeverywhere/plugin-config/template-config" ./config
```

2. Replace the placeholder values in the CSV files with values that are suitable for your model.

3. Add a line to your `sde.config.js` file that uses the `configProcessor` function supplied by this package:

```js
import { configProcessor } from '@sdeverywhere/plugin-config'

export async function config() {
  return {
    // Specify the Vensim model to read
    modelFiles: ['example.mdl'],

    // Read csv files from `config` directory and write to the recommended output
    // directory structure.  See `ConfigProcessorOptions` for more details.
    modelSpec: configProcessor({
      config: 'config'
    }),

    plugins: [
      // ...
    ]
  }
}
```

4. Run `sde bundle` or `sde dev`; your config files will be used to drive the build process.

## Documentation

API documentation (for plugin configuration options) is available in the [`docs`](./docs/index.md) directory.

## License

SDEverywhere is distributed under the MIT license. See `LICENSE` for more details.
