[@sdeverywhere/plugin-deploy](../index.md) / DeployPluginOptions

# Interface: DeployPluginOptions

The options that control the deployment process.

## Properties

### baseUrl

 `Optional` **baseUrl**: `string`

The base URL for the published project.  This is used for determining the URLs
for remote bundle files used by model-check and for other purposes.

By default, the plugin assumes deployment to GitHub Pages, so if this property is
undefined, the following default template will be used:
```
  baseUrl: 'https://{GH_USERNAME_OR_ORG}.github.io/{GH_REPO_NAME}'
```

For example, if your GitHub username is "sdmodeler123", and your GitHub repository
is called "my-sd-model", `baseUrl` will be set as follows:
```
  baseUrl: 'https://sdmodeler123.github.io/my-sd-model'
```

IMPORTANT: If you set up GitHub Pages to use a custom domain, be sure to update
this variable to use that custom domain, otherwise model-check may fail to load
bundles due to cross origin redirect issues, for example:
```
  baseUrl: 'https://sdmodeler123.com/my-sd-model'
```

If you use a different host/server (AWS, GitLab, etc) or publish to a different
directory structure, you can update this variable to suit your needs, for example:
```
  baseUrl: 'https://sdmodeler123.com/projects/my-model'
```

___

### deployDir

 `Optional` **deployDir**: `string`

The path of the directory to which the build products will be copied.
If undefined, defaults to the "deploy" directory under the configured
project `prepDir`.  The plugin will create this directory if it does not
exist.

This directory is ephemeral and should be listed in your `.gitignore` file.

___

### products

 `Optional` **products**: `Record`<`string`, [`BuildProduct`](BuildProduct.md)\>

The build products that will be copied to the `deployDir` directory.
If undefined, defaults to the following build products that are typically
generated by the build process (if any of these are not available, the
plugin will skip copying them):
- The app: `packages/app/public -> ${deployDir}/app`
- The model-check bundle: `sde-prep/check-bundle.js -> ${deployDir}/extras/check-bundle.js`
- The model-check report: `sde-prep/check-report -> ${deployDir}/extras/check-compare-to-base`

The keys of the record should be a short name for the build product, used in the `index.json`
file that is generated by the plugin.
