packages/runtime/docs/interfaces/JsModel.md, before:

[@sdeverywhere/runtime](../index.md) / JsModel

# Interface: JsModel

An interface that exposes the functions of a JavaScript model generated by the
SDEverywhere transpiler.  This allows for running the model with a given set of
input values, which will produce a set of output values.

This is a low-level interface that most developers will not need to interact
with directly.  Use `initJsModel` to create a `RunnableModel`, which can be
used to initialize a synchronous or asynchronous `ModelRunner`.

## Methods

### getInitialTime

**getInitialTime**(): `number`

#### Returns

`number`

___

### getFinalTime

**getFinalTime**(): `number`

#### Returns

`number`

___

### getTimeStep

**getTimeStep**(): `number`

#### Returns

`number`

___

### getSaveFreq

**getSaveFreq**(): `number`

#### Returns

`number`

___

### setTime

**setTime**(`time`): `void`

#### Parameters

| Name | Type |
| :------ | :------ |
| `time` | `number` |

#### Returns

`void`

___

### setInputs

**setInputs**(`inputValue`): `void`

#### Parameters

| Name | Type |
| :------ | :------ |
| `inputValue` | (`index`: `number`) => `number` |

#### Returns

`void`

___

### getOutputVarIds

**getOutputVarIds**(): `string`[]

#### Returns

`string`[]

___

### getOutputVarNames

**getOutputVarNames**(): `string`[]

#### Returns

`string`[]

___

### storeOutputs

**storeOutputs**(`storeValue`): `void`

#### Parameters

| Name | Type |
| :------ | :------ |
| `storeValue` | (`value`: `number`) => `void` |

#### Returns

`void`

___

### initConstants

**initConstants**(): `void`

#### Returns

`void`

___

### initLevels

**initLevels**(): `void`

#### Returns

`void`

___

### evalAux

**evalAux**(): `void`

#### Returns

`void`

___

### evalLevels

**evalLevels**(): `void`

#### Returns

`void`

Commit message:

fix: make createSynchronousModelRunner take a generated model and hide RunnableModel type in API for now

packages/runtime/docs/interfaces/JsModel.md, after:

[@sdeverywhere/runtime](../index.md) / JsModel

# Interface: JsModel

An interface that exposes the functions of a JavaScript model generated by the
SDEverywhere transpiler.  This allows for running the model with a given set of
input values, which will produce a set of output values.

This is a low-level interface that most developers will not need to interact
with directly.  Developers should instead use the `ModelRunner` interface to
interact with a generated model.  Use `createSynchronousModelRunner` to create
a synchronous `ModelRunner`, or `spawnAsyncModelRunner` to create an asynchronous
`ModelRunner`.

 NOTE: The properties and methods exposed in this interface are meant for
internal use only, and are subject to change in coordination with the code
generated by the `@sdeverywhere/compile` package.

## Methods

### getInitialTime

**getInitialTime**(): `number`

#### Returns

`number`

___

### getFinalTime

**getFinalTime**(): `number`

#### Returns

`number`

___

### getTimeStep

**getTimeStep**(): `number`

#### Returns

`number`

___

### getSaveFreq

**getSaveFreq**(): `number`

#### Returns

`number`

___

### setTime

**setTime**(`time`): `void`

#### Parameters

| Name | Type |
| :------ | :------ |
| `time` | `number` |

#### Returns

`void`

___

### setInputs

**setInputs**(`inputValue`): `void`

#### Parameters

| Name | Type |
| :------ | :------ |
| `inputValue` | (`index`: `number`) => `number` |

#### Returns

`void`

___

### getOutputVarIds

**getOutputVarIds**(): `string`[]

#### Returns

`string`[]

___

### getOutputVarNames

**getOutputVarNames**(): `string`[]

#### Returns

`string`[]

___

### storeOutputs

**storeOutputs**(`storeValue`): `void`

#### Parameters

| Name | Type |
| :------ | :------ |
| `storeValue` | (`value`: `number`) => `void` |

#### Returns

`void`

___

### initConstants

**initConstants**(): `void`

#### Returns

`void`

___

### initLevels

**initLevels**(): `void`

#### Returns

`void`

___

### evalAux

**evalAux**(): `void`

#### Returns

`void`

___

### evalLevels

**evalLevels**(): `void`

#### Returns

`void`
